---
layout: post
title:      "Why Coding Now?"
date:       2020-02-03 12:22:56 -0500
permalink:  why_coding_now
---


Like most graduating high school seniors, I wasn’t quite sure what exactly I wanted to spend the rest of life doing but going to college was not an option in my family. So I decided to go with what I was best at academically and pursued a degree in Biology. Well, after completing 4.5 years of college I still was not quite sure what I wanted to spend the rest of my life doing and couldn’t get a job with my degree to save my life! Apparently you need a degree plus multiple years of experience to get an entry level position in the Science industry…who knew? Lol!

Through the guidance of the Universe, I stumbled into an undisclosed job fair a friend of mine found on craigslist. Once we arrived we were told that the job was for an AppleCare Representative position. At this point, I was beyond excited. I live, eat and breathe Apple to say the least. I sat down with the hiring manager and after one look at my resume, he stated that I was over-qualified for the job and asked why I was there? My reply was honest, “I need a job!” He hired me on the spot! Although, this was the least professional job I have had and it may not have been the most challenging, I was able to build confidence in learning new skills in the workplace and a true passion for technology. 

I then went on to work at the Genius Bar in a local Apple Store and gained a customer service skill-set that is still unmatched. After Apple, it seemed like I didn’t go too long without a job and I was able to work for various companies regardless of the industry. I was able to work remotely managing the Tier 1 support desk for multiple accounts. I then had the opportunity to use my experience in building a Service Desk teams processes and knowledge base. However, I began to feel as though my achievements were plateauing. I was constantly getting better but only at Customer Service and that is not a tangible skill. I began to want a to push my career in a direction where I was a more competitive candidate and could actually see the fruits of my labor. So I begin to look into obtaining a certification that would teach me a tangible skill and create more marketability for myself on the job market. It’s crazy how the internet works because after one day of googling, I had ads about Data Science popping up on my Instagram timeline. After clicking on one of the ads I noticed that there were multiple courses offered, including Software Engineering and that was something I was more interested in after researching Data Science and the available jobs. Not only would it teach me a skill that I could use to work for someone else but I could also produce a product on my own. It was everything I said I was missing career wise but I still wasn’t sold on making the investment so I read tons of blogs about other people’s experiences, researched job growth expectancy and of course pay! After reading honest opinions and gaining some pointers I felt more confident taking on the challenge of learning to code. My start was a little rocky, as I bit off more than I could chew, by joining a full-time paced cohort and attempting to work a full-time job. However, this go round I feel way more prepared and confident that I will be successful throughout this journey and I am really looking forward to accomplishing a goal of mine this year!
